[Pre4] New JavaScript interop features (#35220)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/javascript-interoperability/call-javascript-from-dotnet.md

[!INCLUDE[](~/blazor/includes/js-interop/synchronous-js-interop-call-js.md)]

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-10.0"

<!-- UPDATE 10.0 - API Browser cross-links in the next
                   two H2 sections. -->

## Create an instance of a JS object using a constructor function

Create an instance of a JS object using a constructor function and get the <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSObjectReference>/<xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.IJSInProcessObjectReference> .NET handle for referencing the instance with the following API:

* `InvokeNewAsync` (asynchronous)
* `InvokeNew` (synchronous)

Examples in this section demonstrate the API calls with the following `TestClass` with a constructor function (`constructor(text)`):

```javascript
class TestClass {
  constructor(text) {
    this.text = text;
  }

  getTextLength() {
    return this.text.length;
  }
}

window.jsInterop = {
  TestClass: TestClass

> };

Reviewer: Here and elsewhere we could simplify the examples slightly by defining the classes/objects directly on the `window` object, e.g.:

```js
window.TestClass = class {
    ...
}

window.testObject = { ... }
```

However, I leave up to you which way you think is more instructive. 👍

```csharp
var inProcRuntime = ((IJSInProcessRuntime)JSRuntime);
var classRef = inProcRuntime.InvokeNew("jsInterop.TestClass", "Blazor!");
var text = await classRef.GetValueAsync<string>("text");
var textLength = await classRef.InvokeAsync<int>("getTextLength");
```

An overload is available that takes a <xref:System.Threading.CancellationToken> argument or <xref:System.TimeSpan> timeout argument.

## Read or modify the value of a JS object property

Read or modify the value of a JS object property, both data and accessor properties, with the following API:

* `GetValueAsync`/`SetValueAsync` (asynchronous)
* `GetValue`/`SetValue` (synchronous)

Examples in this section demonstrate the API calls with the following JS object (`testObject`):

```javascript
const testObject = {
  num: 10
}

window.jsInterop = {
  testObject: testObject
};
```

### Asynchronous `GetValueAsync` and `SetValueAsync`

> Use `GetValueAsync<TValue>(string identifier)` to read the value of the specified JS property asynchronously. The property can't be a `set`-only property. A <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSException> is thrown if the property doesn't exist. The following example returns a value of 10 from the property:

Author: Recommend using GH's *Add a suggestion* feature...

```suggestion
Use `GetValueAsync<TValue>(string identifier)` to read the value of the specified JS property asynchronously. A <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSException> is thrown if the property doesn't exist or is a `set`-only property.
```

```csharp
var valueFromDataPropertyAsync = await JSRuntime.GetValueAsync<int>(
  "jsInterop.testObject.num");
```

> The special overload `IJSObjectReference.GetValueAsync<TValue>()` doesn't take an identifier and simply returns the value of the object. `TValue` is a model of the object's properties that the caller is interested in.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Asynchronous `GetValueAsync` and `SetValueAsync`

Use `GetValueAsync<TValue>(string identifier)` to read the value of the specified JS property asynchronously. The property can't be a `set`-only property. A <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSException> is thrown if the property doesn't exist. The following example returns a value of 10 from the property:
Use `GetValueAsync<TValue>(string identifier)` to read the value of the specified JS property asynchronously. A <xref:Microsoft.JSInterop.JSException> is thrown if the property doesn't exist or is a `set`-only property.

```csharp
var valueFromDataPropertyAsync = await JSRuntime.GetValueAsync<int>(
  "jsInterop.testObject.num");
```

The special overload `IJSObjectReference.GetValueAsync<TValue>()` doesn't take an identifier and simply returns the value of the object. `TValue` is a model of the object's properties that the caller is interested in.

> Use `SetValueAsync<TValue>(string identifier, TValue value)`to update the value of the specified JS property asynchronously. The property can't be a `get`-only property. If the property isn't defined on the target object, the property is created. In the following example, `testObject.num` is set to 20, and `num2` is created with a value of 30 on `testObject`:

Author: BTW tho, it's best to use the GH suggestion feature for line replacements so that I can understand the changes better.

> Use `SetValueAsync<TValue>(string identifier, TValue value)`to update the value of the specified JS property asynchronously. The property can't be a `get`-only property. If the property isn't defined on the target object, the property is created. In the following example, `testObject.num` is set to 20, and `num2` is created with a value of 30 on `testObject`:

Reviewer: I will do that in the future, sorry 👍
